# Prediction-of-Game-Development-Problems
The video game development industry, or more formally, the interactive entertainment industry is the industry actively involved in developing, marketing and selling video games. Today’s era is known as the Impending Golden Age of Interactive Entertainment and the rapidly raising interest in video games has led to an increase in video game development techniques. Although this industry has only been around for the past few decades, it has emerged as an immensely large sector – even larger than the print and music industries combined. It is believed that the best is yet to come for this industry, and hence it is not shocking that the industry has been knocking on the doors of the film industry with respect to market value, popularity.  

A game’s post-mortem describes its history, team goals and discusses what went right and wrong with the development. Despite its significance, there is little understanding about the challenges faced by programmers because post-mortems are informally written and not properly maintained, leading to a luck of trustworthiness. In this study, a systematic analysis has been performed on different problems faced in game development. Changes happen so quickly that innovators and businessmen struggle to keep up, while others find themselves paralyzed by the complexity of the industry’s many moving parts. The need for automation and machine learning arises as it could aid developers easily identify the exact problem from the description, and hence be able to easily find a solution. This work could also help developers in identifying frequent mistakes that could be avoided, and act as a starting point to further consider game development in the context of software engineering. For the purpose of this work, game development problems have been divided into three groups - production, business, management.

There are 3 major challenges in classifying the game-development problems based on the quote/description: 

1)	Word Embedding: The improper structure of post-mortems poses an intrinsic challenge. Since the input to any machine learning model is a feature vector, it is necessary to give a numerical representation of the textual data. This problem can be solved with the help of word embedding techniques. Apart from a numerical representation, word embeddings combine words with similar meaning and provide a reduced set of features. In this work, 7 word embedding techniques - TFIDF, Skipgram, CBOW, word2vec, BERT, GloVe, and FastText were applied on the textual data.

2)	Class Imbalance: A data set which contains equal/almost equal number of samples from all dependent variables is said to be balanced. The game-development dataset used in our work suffers from class imbalance and hence it has been proposed to use Synthetic Minority Oversampling Technique (SMOTE) to balance the data. 

3)	Number of Features: The predictive ability and classification accuracy of a machine learning model depends on the features used to build it. A model with redundant and irrelevant features performs less efficiently. Since the data consists of a large number of features, this poses an intrinsic challenge. To overcome this and to have a comparative understanding of the different models built, 3 feature selection techniques - Principal Component Analysis (PCA), Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA) and Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) have been used. Applying feature selection techniques allowed us to select the best combination of crucial features, extract important data and build a better classifier. 

To overcome these challenges, a technical analysis and comparative study between the performance of 7 word embedding, 3 feature selection, and 5 classification techniques have been conducted. For predicting the type of game development problem from the description, 5 machine learning classifiers namely, K-Nearest Neighbours (KNN), Support Vector Classifier (SVC), Naive Bayes Classifier (NBC), Decision Tree (DT), and Random Forest (RF) have been used and the models were trained using five-fold cross validation. Apart from the five classifiers, the use of deep learning classifiers and ensemble techniques such as weight-based ensemble, bagging, and ada-boost (adaptive boosting) have also been proposed. 

The models built using the original data are compared with the ones built using SMOTE sampled data. The performance of the word embedding, feature selection, and classification techniques are evaluated using AUC scores and compared using descriptive statistics, box-plots, and significant tests. Accuracy and F-measure are not used for validating the models because of class imbalance. Finally, rank sum test and Friedman’s test are used to determine whether the models built using the various techniques are significantly different or not. It was observed that word embedding techniques played a crucial role in giving a numerical representation for the textual data and that SMOTE data sampling and feature selection are extremely important in order to build a classifier with high predictive ability and get good experimental results. 

This work, thus provides a way to classify game development problems into different groups based on the quote. This could help future developers easily recognize the type of problem they are facing and find suitable solutions.
